# dmpb
Minimal static site generator in Perl

## Author's Note
I originally wrote this to familiarize myself with Perl **for fun**.

I now understand why Perl's popularity has plummeted over the past twenty years.

As for the program, it's barely functional in that it technically fulfills most of the requirements I set out for myself.
It can parse blog entries and create their HTML pages, along with a blog index and RSS feed.
The static content feature doesn't work but it's literally just copying the contents of one folder to another folder and I'm burnt out.

(This rant is half satire.
I definitely learned a lot from working with Perl, and will keep it in mind for future scripts that don't fit Python well.)

## Overview
dmpb is an ultralight static site generator and blog engine written in Perl inspired by [lb](https://github.com/LukeSmithxyz/lb).

I created this after failing (or not looking hard enough) to find a small, easy-to-use static site generator that:
- did not require installing a full programming environment (unlike Jekyll)
- did not require the use of code to build layouts (unlike Gatsby and 11ty)
- maintained simplicity (unlike Hugo)

As such, the design goals for dmpb are as follows:
- be written in pure Perl
- generate purely static HTML/CSS pages (No Javascript necessary)
- load configuration from a single, short ini file

`blog` stores raw markdown blog entries.
These may be named or organized however you like so long as they have the `.md` file extension.

`templates` stores the HTML templates used to generate the blog.

`static` contains static pages and resources copied directly into the output directory as-is.
This is useful for pages and assets not generated by the blog engine, such as a favicon or other assets.

`out` contains the generated website output.
Self-explanatory.

### Blog Entries
Blog entries are, for the most part, raw markdown converted to HTML and embedded in templates.
The first three lines will be read in as the title, publishing date, and comma-delimited tags.
After a line break, the rest of the file is read in as markdown content.
```md
Post Title
2020-03-31
markdown,example

This is some content.
Notice the **line break** between the headers and main content.
```

### Templates
dmpb uses the [Template Toolkit](http://template-toolkit.org) for templating.

dmpb searches for the following template files:
- blog.tt2: The index of all blog entries
- post.tt2: The template for individual blog posts

### Configuration
Configuration settings are stored in the [config.ini] file.
